---
title: "Co-design optimization of combined heat and power-based microgrids"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/chp_codesign
excerpt: 'This paper presents a mixed-integer programming model for optimizing the design and operation of combined heat and power system'
date: 2023-10-16
venue: 'Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy'
paperurl: 'https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jrse/article/15/5/056301/2916936'
citation: 'Wu, J., Chung, I. B., Liu, Z., & Wang, P. (2023). &quot;Co-design optimization of combined heat and power-based microgrids.&quot; <i>Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy</i>. 15(5).'
---

Abstract: With the emergent need for clean and reliable energy resources, hybrid energy systems, such as the microgrid, are widely adopted in the United States. A microgrid can consist of various distributed energy resources, for instance, combined heat and power (CHP) systems. The CHP module is a distributed cogeneration technology that produces electricity and recaptures heat generated as a by-product. It is an energy-efficient technology converting heat that would otherwise be wasted to valuable thermal energy. For an optimal system configuration, this study develops a novel co-design optimization framework for CHP-based cogeneration microgrids. The framework provides the stakeholder with a method to optimize investments and attain resilient operations. The proposed co-design framework has a mixed integer programming (MIP) model that outputs decisions for both plant designs and operating controls. The microgrid considered in this study contains six components: the CHP, boiler, heat recovery unit, thermal storage system, power storage system, and photovoltaic plant. After solving the MIP model, the optimal design parameters of each component can be found to minimize the total installation cost of all components in the microgrid. Furthermore, the online costs from energy production, operation, maintenance, machine startup, and disruption-induced unsatisfied loads are minimized by solving the optimal control decisions for operations. Case studies based on designing a CHP-based microgrid with empirical data are conducted. Moreover, we consider both nominal and disruptive operational scenarios to validate the performance of the proposed co-design framework in terms of a cost-effective, resilient system.
